examples/python/simple_code_generator/README.md, before:

# simple_code_generator Python Example

This simple project is intended to facilitate demonstration of Intelli-J working with a Bazel Python project that uses code-generator Bazel Rules.

## Run the example

```
bazel run "//example:bin"
```

The expected output from the example is;

```
- Auckland City
- Regensburg City
- Darwin City
- Toulouse City
* Whanganui River
* Danube River
* Yarra River
* Volga River
# Bakerlite Plastic
# Polyethylene Plastic
# Nylon Plastic
```

## Explanation

The example is a `py_binary` with three `deps` and which, via `main.py`, uses a function from each of the `deps` to print the list of cities, rivers and plastics above.

- `:static_lib` provides the list of rivers and is sourced from checked-in source files.
- `:generated_files_lib` provides the list of cities and is sourced from a code-generator that outputs individual source files.
- `:generated_directory_lib` provides the list of plastics and is sourced from a code-generator that outputs a directory containing source files.

In each case, `imports` are used.

## Key observations

Open the project in Intelli-J ensuring that Python is enabled as a language option. Perform a sync on the project. Open the `main.py` file. Observe that the imports and symbols for each of the three `deps` is recognized by the IDE. The targets `//example:generated_directory_lib` and `//example:generated_files_lib` have a tag `intellij-py-code-generator` which signals to the IDE that the target is a code generator.

Commit message:

Supply code-gen rule names via settings
A prior PR has allowed that, for some languages, certain
Rules may be specified as being "code generators". This
mechanism was via Bazel tags on the target. This commit
changes the mechanism so that the rule names are specified
by settings instead.

examples/python/simple_code_generator/README.md, after:

# simple_code_generator Python Example

This simple project is intended to facilitate demonstration of Intelli-J working with a Bazel Python project that uses code-generator Bazel Rules.

## Run the example

```
bazel run "//example:bin"
```

The expected output from the example is;

```
- Auckland City
- Regensburg City
- Darwin City
- Toulouse City
* Whanganui River
* Danube River
* Yarra River
* Volga River
# Bakerlite Plastic
# Polyethylene Plastic
# Nylon Plastic
```

## Explanation

The example is a `py_binary` with three `deps` and which, via `main.py`, uses a function from each of the `deps` to print the list of cities, rivers and plastics above.

- `//lib:static_lib` provides the list of rivers and is sourced from checked-in source files.
- `//generated:generated_files_lib` provides the list of cities and is sourced from a code-generator that outputs individual source files.
- `//generated:generated_directory_lib` provides the list of plastics and is sourced from a code-generator that outputs a directory containing source files.

In each case, `imports` are used.

## Key observations

Open the project in Intelli-J ensuring that Python is enabled as a language option and that the `tools/intellij/.managed.bazelproject` is used to setup the project's view. Perform a sync on the project. Open the `main.py` file. Observe that the imports and symbols for each of the three `deps` is recognized by the IDE. The project view has a section...

```
python_code_generator_rule_names:
  test_codegen_files_py
  test_codegen_directory_py
```

...which is instructing the IDE to consider `test_codegen_files_py` and `test_codegen_directory_py` as code-generators.
